.TH g.manual 1 "" "GRASS 7.4.1" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.manual.py\fR\fR  \- Displays the manual pages of GRASS modules.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, manual, help
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.manual.py\fR
.br
\fBg.manual.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.manual.py\fR [\-\fBitmo\fR] \fBentry\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Display index
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Display topics
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Display as MAN text page instead of HTML page in browser
.IP "\fB\-o\fR" 4m
.br
Display online manuals instead of locally installed
.br
Use online manuals available at http://grass.osgeo.org website. This flag has no effect when displaying MAN text pages.
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBentry\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Manual entry to be displayed
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.manual\fR display the manual pages of GRASS in HTML and MAN
format.
.SH NOTES
The name of the browser is defined in the environment variable
GRASS_HTML_BROWSER. For most platforms this should be an
executable in your PATH, or the full path to an executable. See
variables for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show index page in the browser.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.manual \-i
\fR
.fi
Show manual page of \fId.vect\fR module
in the browser.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.manual d.vect
\fR
.fi
Show module manual page in terminal.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.manual \-m d.vect
\fR
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2013\-01\-06 16:32:45 +0100 (Sun, 06 Jan 2013) $\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.manual source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2018
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.4.1 Reference Manual
