.TH g.version 1 "" "GRASS 7.4.1" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.version\fR\fR  \- Displays GRASS GIS version info.
.br
Optionally also prints build or copyright information.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, support, citing, copyright, version, license
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.version\fR
.br
\fBg.version \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.version\fR [\-\fBcxbreg\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Print also the copyright message
.IP "\fB\-x\fR" 4m
.br
Print also the citation options
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Print also the build information
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Print also the GIS library revision number and date
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Print also extended info for additional libraries
.br
GDAL/OGR, PROJ.4, GEOS
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print info in shell script style (including SVN revision number)
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.version\fR prints to standard output the GRASS version number,
date, the GRASS GIS copyright (\fB\-c\fR flag), and GRASS build information
(\fB\-b\fR flag).
.SH NOTES
This program requires no command line arguments; the user simply types
\fIg.version\fR on the command line to see the version number and
date of the GRASS GIS software currently being run by the user.
.PP
Information about GRASS GIS
core GIS
Library can be printed by \fB\-r\fR flag.
.PP
Version numbers of additional libraries
like PROJ.4, GDAL/OGR
or GEOS are printed
by \fB\-e\fR flag.
.PP
See also function version()
from Python
Scripting Library.
.br
.nf
\fC
import grass.script as gcore
print gcore.version()
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic info
.br
.nf
\fC
g.version
GRASS 7.4.svn (2017)
\fR
.fi
.SS GIS Library info
.br
.nf
\fC
g.version \-r
GRASS 7.4.svn (2017)
libgis Revision: 70829
libgis Date: 2017\-04\-04 09:43:02 +0200 (Tue, 04 Apr 2017)
\fR
.fi
.SS Full info in shell script style
.br
.nf
\fC
g.version \-rge
version=7.4.svn
date=2017
revision=r71702M
build_date=2017\-11\-12
build_platform=x86_64\-pc\-linux\-gnu
build_off_t_size=8
libgis_revision=70829
libgis_date=\(dq2017\-04\-04 09:43:02 +0200 (Tue, 04 Apr 2017) \(dq
proj4=4.9.3
gdal=2.1.3
geos=3.6.1
sqlite=3.20.1
\fR
.fi
.SH Citing GRASS GIS
The GRASS Development Team has invested significant time and effort
in creating GRASS GIS, please cite it when using it for data analysis.
The GRASS GIS Web site
offers citations in different styles.
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Shapiro,
U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.br
Extended info by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2017\-11\-12 20:37:57 +0100 (Sun, 12 Nov 2017) $\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.version source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2018
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.4.1 Reference Manual
