.TH i.tasscap 1 "" "GRASS 7.4.1" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.tasscap.py\fR\fR  \- Performs Tasseled Cap (Kauth Thomas) transformation.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, transformation, Landsat, MODIS, Tasseled Cap transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.tasscap.py\fR
.br
\fBi.tasscap.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.tasscap.py\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...] \fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR \fBsensor\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
For Landsat4\-7: bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7; for Landsat8: bands 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7; for MODIS: bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output basename raster map(s)
.br
Name for output basename raster map(s)
.IP "\fBsensor\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Satellite sensor
.br
Options: \fIlandsat4_tm, landsat5_tm, landsat7_etm, landsat8_oli, modis\fR
.br
\fBlandsat4_tm\fR: Use transformation rules for Landsat 4 TM
.br
\fBlandsat5_tm\fR: Use transformation rules for Landsat 5 TM
.br
\fBlandsat7_etm\fR: Use transformation rules for Landsat 7 ETM
.br
\fBlandsat8_oli\fR: Use transformation rules for Landsat 8 OLI
.br
\fBmodis\fR: Use transformation rules for MODIS
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.tasscap\fR calculates Tasseled Cap (Kauth Thomas, TC) transformation
for Landsat TM data (TM4, TM5, ETM7) and MODIS data.
The tasseled cap transformation is effectively a compression method to
reduce multiple spectral data into a few bands. The method was originally
developed for understanding important phenomena of crop development in
spectral space (Kauth and Thomas, 1976).
.PP
Tasseled cap coefficients for Landsat 7 ETM+ are at\-satellite reflectance
values (C. Huang et al., 2001), the conversion can be achieved with
\fIi.landsat.toar\fR.
.PP
The following tasseled cap components are generated:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.1: corresponds to brightness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.2: corresponds to greenness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.3: corresponds to wetness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.4: corresponds to atmospheric haze (only selected sensors: Landsat 5,7,8).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Calculation of TC maps from North Carolina Landsat 7 ETM scene:
.br
.nf
\fC
# See manual page of i.landsat.toar for preprocessing
g.region raster=lsat7_2002_toar.1 \-p
i.tasscap sensor=landsat7_etm \(rs
  input=lsat7_2002_toar.1,lsat7_2002_toar.2,lsat7_2002_toar.3,lsat7_2002_toar.4,lsat7_2002_toar.5,lsat7_2002_toar.7 \(rs
  output=lsat7_2002_tasscap
\fR
.fi
Results:
.PP
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
\fI\(cqBrightness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 1\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\(cqGreenness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 2\fR
T}
.sp 1
T{
\fI\(cqWetness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 3\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\(cqAtmospheric haze\(cq Tasseled Cap component 4\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.br
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
LANDSAT\-4/LANDSAT\-5: TC\-factor changed to CRIST et al. 1986,
Proc. IGARSS 1986, p.1467
.IP \(bu 4n
Crist, E. P., 1985, A TM tasseled cap equivalent transformation for reflectance
factor data, Remote Sensing of Environment, 17: 301\-306.
.IP \(bu 4n
LANDSAT\-7: TASSCAP factors cited from:
DERIVATION OF A TASSELED CAP TRANSFORMATION BASED ON LANDSAT 7 AT\-SATELLITE REFLECTANCE.
Chengquan Huang, Bruce Wylie, Limin Yang, Collin Homer and Gregory Zylstra Raytheon ITSS,
USGS EROS Data Center Sioux Falls, SD 57198, USA
http://landcover.usgs.gov/pdf/tasseled.pdf
.br
This is published as well in INT. J. OF RS, 2002, VOL 23, NO. 8, 1741\-1748.
.IP \(bu 4n
MODIS Tasselled Cap coefficients \- Ref: Lobser & Cohen (2007). MODIS tasselled cap:
land cover characteristics expressed through transformed MODIS data.
International Journal of Remote Sensing, Volume 28(22), Table 3
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.albedo,
i.atcorr,
i.landsat.toar,
i.vi
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Dr. Agustin Lobo, original script, 1997
.PP
Markus Neteler, ITC\-irst, 2001
.PP
Converted to Python by Glynn Clements
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2018\-03\-04 13:06:43 +0100 (Sun, 04 Mar 2018) $\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: i.tasscap source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2018
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.4.1 Reference Manual
