.TH r.compress 1 "" "GRASS 7.4.1" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.compress\fR\fR  \- Compresses and decompresses raster maps.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, map management, compression
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.compress\fR
.br
\fBr.compress \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.compress\fR [\-\fBupg\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 4m
.br
Uncompress the map
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print compression information and data type of input map(s)
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print compression information in shell script style
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of existing raster map(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.compress\fR can be used to compress or decompress raster maps.
Additionally, it prints information about the compression method and
data type of the input raster map(s).
.PP
All raster maps (those imported for the first time and those newly
generated) are compressed by default using the ZLIB compression
method (see below). Related no data files (i.e.: NULL files), if
present, are not compressed by default unless a specific environment
variable is set (GRASS_COMPRESS_NULLS, see below).
.PP
During compression or re\-compression, \fIr.compress\fR compresses
raster maps using the method specified by means of the environment
variable GRASS_COMPRESSOR. The default compression method is
ZLIB\(cqs \(dqdeflate\(dq algorithm (LZ77\-based). Raster maps that contain very
little information (such as boundary, geology, soils and land use maps)
can be greatly reduced in size. Some raster maps are shrunk to roughly
1% of their original sizes.
All newly generated raster maps are automatically stored as compressed
data with varying methods depending on the raster format (i.e.,
CELL: integer; FCELL: single precision; DCELL: double precision; see
below). All GRASS GIS modules are able to read both compressed and
uncompressed raster maps.
.PP
Raster maps that are already compressed might be compressed again,
either by setting a different method with GRASS_COMPRESSOR
(supported methods: RLE, ZLIB, LZ4, BZIP2) or, for the case of ZLIB
compression, by changing the compression level with the environment variable
GRASS_ZLIB_LEVEL.
.PP
Compressed raster maps may be decompressed using \fIr.compress\fR to
return them to their original format, using the \fB\-u\fR flag. If a
raster map was already decompressed and the \fB\-u\fR flag is set, the
module simply informs the user that the map is already decompressed and
exits.
.PP
Information about the compression method and data type of the input
raster map(s) can be printed in shell style with the \fB\-g\fR flag. In
this case, the module prints to stdout one line per input map
with the fields \(dqinput map name\(dq, \(dqdata type\(dq,
\(dqname of data compression method\(dq, \(dqNULL file
compression\(dq separated by the pipe character. NULL file
compression is indicated with \(dqYES\(dq or \(dqNO\(dq.
.SS TERMINOLOGY
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
INTEGER map (CELL data type): a raster map of INTEGER type (whole
numbers only)
.IP \(bu 4n
FLOAT map (FCELL data type): a raster map of FLOAT type (4 bytes,
7\-9 digits precision)
.IP \(bu 4n
DOUBLE map (DCELL data type): a raster map of DOUBLE type (8 bytes,
15\-17 digits precision)
.IP \(bu 4n
NULL: represents \(dqno data\(dq in raster maps; to be distinguished from
0 (zero) data value
.RE
.SS OVERVIEW OF AVAILABLE COMPRESSION ALGORITHMS
The following compression methods are available (set by
export GRASS_COMPRESSOR=\fImethod\fR):
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
NONE (uncompressed)
.IP \(bu 4n
RLE  (generic Run\-Length Encoding of single bytes; deprecated)
.IP \(bu 4n
ZLIB (DEFLATE, good speed and compression \- \fBdefault compression\fR)
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
with zlib compression levels (export GRASS_ZLIB_LEVEL=X): \-1..9
(\-1 is default which corresponds to ZLIB level 6)
.IP \(bu 4n
note: export GRASS_ZLIB_LEVEL=0 is equal to copying the data
as\-is from source to destination
.RE
.IP \(bu 4n
LZ4  (fastest, low compression)
.IP \(bu 4n
BZIP2 (slowest, high compression)
.RE
Important: the NULL file compression must be explicitly turned on with
export GRASS_COMPRESS_NULLS=1 \- such raster maps can then only
be opened with GRASS GIS 7.2.0 or later. NULL file compression can be
managed with \fBr.null \-z\fR.
The NULL file compression is using the LZ4 method as being the best compromise
between speed and compression rate.
.SS COMPRESSION ALGORITHM DETAILS
All GRASS GIS raster map types are by default ZLIB compressed, i.e. using
ZLIB\(cqs deflate algorithm. Through the environment variable
GRASS_COMPRESSOR the compression method can be set to RLE, ZLIB,
LZ4, or BZIP2.
.PP
Integer (CELL type) raster maps can be compressed with RLE if
the environment variable GRASS_INT_ZLIB exists and is set to value
0. However, this is not recommended.
.PP
Floating point (FCELL, DCELL) raster maps never use RLE compression;
they are either compressed with ZLIB, LZ4, BZIP2 or are uncompressed.
.IP "RLE" 4m
.br
\fBDEPRECATED\fR Run\-Length Encoding, poor compression ratio but
fast. It is kept for backwards compatibility to read raster maps
created with GRASS 6. It is only used for raster maps of type CELL.
FCELL and DCELL maps are never and have never been compressed with RLE.
.IP "ZLIB" 4m
.br
ZLIB\(cqs deflate is the default compression method for all raster
maps. GRASS GIS 7 uses by default 1 as ZLIB compression level which is the
best compromise between speed and compression ratio, also when
compared to other available compression methods. Valid levels are in
the range [1, 9] and can be set with the environment variable
GRASS_ZLIB_LEVEL.
.IP "LZ4" 4m
.br
LZ4 is a very fast compression method, about as fast as no
compression. Decompression is also very fast. The compression ratio is
generally higher than for RLE but worse than for ZLIB. LZ4 is
recommended if disk space is not a limiting factor.
.IP "BZIP2" 4m
.br
BZIP2 can provide compression ratios much higher than the other
methods, but only for large raster maps (> 10000 columns). For large
raster maps, disk space consumption can be reduced by 30 \- 50% when
using BZIP2 instead of ZLIB\(cqs deflate. BZIP2 is the slowest compression
and decompression method. However, if reading from / writing to a
storage device is the limiting factor, BZIP2 compression can speed up
raster map processing. Be aware that for smaller raster maps, BZIP2
compression ratio can be worse than other compression methods.
.SH NOTES
.SS Compression method number scheme
The used compression method is encoded with numbers. In the internal
cellhd file, the value for \(dqcompressed\(dq is 1 for RLE, 2
for ZLIB, 3 for LZ4, and 4 for BZIP2.
.PP
Obviously, decompression is controlled by the raster map\(cqs compression,
not by the environment variable.
.SS Formats
Conceptually, a raster data file consists of rows of cells, with each
row containing the same number of cells. A cell consists of one or more
bytes. For CELL maps, the number of bytes per cell depends on the
category values stored in the cell. Category values in the range 0\-255
require 1 byte per cell, while category values in the range 256\-65535
require 2 bytes, and category values in the range above 65535 require 3
(or more) bytes per cell.
.PP
FCELL maps always have 4 bytes per cell and DCELL maps always have 8
bytes per cell.
.PP
Since GRASS GIS 7.0.0, the default compression method for
Integer (CELL) raster maps is ZLIB and no longer RLE.
.SS ZLIB compression levels
If the environment variable GRASS_ZLIB_LEVEL exists and
its value can be parsed as an integer, it determines the compression
level used when newly generated raster maps are compressed using ZLIB
compression. This applies to all raster map types (CELL, FCELL, DCELL).
.PP
If the variable does not exist, or the value cannot be parsed as an
integer, ZLIB\(cqs compression level 1 will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
Printing of current compression state:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.compress compressed_no \-p
  <compressed_no> (method 0: NONE). Data type: <CELL>
\fR
.fi
.PP
Applying RLE compression to a copy of the uncompressed map (not recommended!):
.br
.nf
\fC
# compression of map using the deprecated RLE compression
g.copy raster=compressed_no,compressed_RLE
export GRASS_INT_ZLIB=0 # RLE
r.compress compressed_RLE
r.compress compressed_RLE \-p
  <compressed_RLE> is compressed (method 1: RLE). Data type: <CELL>
unset GRASS_INT_ZLIB
\fR
.fi
.PP
Applying ZLIB compression to a copy of the uncompressed map:
.br
.nf
\fC
# compression of map using ZLIB compression
g.copy raster=compressed_no,compressed_ZLIB
export GRASS_INT_ZLIB=1 # ZLIB
r.compress compressed_ZLIB
r.compress compressed_ZLIB \-p
  <compressed_ZLIB> is compressed (method 2: ZLIB). Data type: <CELL>
unset GRASS_INT_ZLIB
\fR
.fi
.PP
Applying BZIP2 compression to a copy of the ZLIB\-compressed map:
.br
.nf
\fC
# compression of map using BZIP2 compression
g.copy raster=compressed_ZLIB,compressed_BZIP2
export GRASS_COMPRESSOR=BZIP2 # BZIP2
r.compress compressed_BZIP2
r.compress compressed_BZIP2 \-p
  <compressed_BZIP2> is compressed (method 4: BZIP2). Data type: <CELL>
unset GRASS_COMPRESSOR
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.info,
r.null,
r.support
\fR
.PP
Compression algorithms:
bzip2,
LZ4,
zlib
.SH AUTHORS
James Westervelt and Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.PP
Markus Metz
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2017\-12\-06 13:43:03 +0100 (Wed, 06 Dec 2017) $\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.compress source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2018
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.4.1 Reference Manual
